cmc\_call\_20180905
================
Bryan Milstead
10 September 2018

Call Notes for September 5, 2018
================================

### Participants: Bryan, Shane, Betty, Hilary, Jeff

Housekeeping
------------

-   Next call is Wednesday OCtober 3
-   Call notes will be available on <https://github.com/willbmisled/cmc_calls>; look for the .md files by date
    -   This months notes: <https://github.com/willbmisled/cmc_calls/blob/master/cmc_call_20180905.md>

Action Items 20180807
---------------------

-   Shane will check with Jim about his work on calibrating the Beagle to cells / ml (leftover from last call). Monitoring: in progress
-   Bryan will convert data entry spreadsheet to google sheet. Target date September 30: in progress
    -   explore adding a form
-   Hilary will take lead on developing an annual CMC report: in progress
-   bloomwatch
    -   Jasper will check on new app update-not present.
-   cyanoScope
    -   Send message to listserve. Bloom season is starting and with hot weather will continue get you observations in especially those with cyanoScope kits. Also push the september cyanoBlitz; no workshop; complete
-   Other Bidness
    -   Shane will see what needs to be done to make the kit links more visible on cyanos.org: in progress.

Program Updates
---------------

### Monitoring

-   Many blooms in progress in the NE

### Bloomwatch

-   Jasper not present
-   New update available

### cyanoScope

-   Identifications are coming in in a timely fashion
-   AED group has most of the recent observations
    -   few kit owners are contributing
    -   many outside people are cooperating
-   Considering asking for the kits back from no-cooperating people

### cyanoBlitz

-   Bryan sent out a listserve message

### Other Bidness

-   What do about "forms" on cyanos.org. (e.g.: MARIANNE DENTON from Nevada Division of Enivornmental Protection, Bureau of Water Quality Planning in NV, US submitted a form on the cyanos.org website about Cyanoscope...)
    -   Who gets these? Hilary, Shane, Jeff, or Betty
    -   Who answers them? Anyone can respond
-   Scheduling for fall/early winter CMC meeting? Ideas….: let's do the Beaglethon in November then consider a late winter meeting.
-   Discussion on participation with BloomWatch & Cyanoscope…seems almost nonexistent…..: cyanoscope discussed: Jasper not present for bloomwatch
-   Webpage improvements: Shane is working on this. Looking at recruiting a writer to help with content. May add a blog for stories with a wordpress template.
-   CMC annual reporting ideas? We'll discuss this next time.

Action Items 20180905
---------------------

-   Shane will check with Jim about his work on calibrating the Beagle to cells / ml.
-   Shane will see what needs to be done to make the kit links more visible on cyanos.org.
-   Hilary will contact the kit owners to ask them what their iNat username is to ask if they need help getting going if they aren't current on their observations.
-   Hilary will set up an November date for the beaglethon.
-   Betty and Bryan will send out tweets and an announcement on iNat about the blitz.
-   Bryan will convert data entry spreadsheet to google sheet. Target date September 30.
    -   explore adding a form
