---
title: "cmc_call_20190410"
author: "Bryan Milstead"
date: "`r format(Sys.time(), '%d %B %Y')`"
output: github_document
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE, echo = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
```

# Call Notes for April 10, 2019, 3-4pm (eastern)
* call in info:
    * Phone number: 202-991-0477
    * ID: 5142339

### Invited: Betty, Bryan, Stephen, Hilary, Jasper, Shane, Tom, Jeff, Jim.
### Attended: Bryan, Stephen, Hilary, Tom, Jasper, Shane

## Housekeeping
* Next call is Wednesday May 1, 2018: 
* First call since the shutdown
* Call notes will be available on https://github.com/willbmisled/cmc_calls; look for the .md files by date
    - This months notes: https://github.com/willbmisled/cmc_calls/blob/master/cmc_call_20190410.md
 
## Action Items 20181212
* Hilary will check with the cyanoscope kit owners to find out their cyanoscope username:  got a couple of responses-will forward.

## Program Updates

### Monitoring
* Hilary went to CT cit sci monitoring conference-many are using the protocol but not letting us know
* QAPP will be updated with a few tweaks to the monitoring protocol
* Cit Sci lake superior asked for a webinar- Hilary will do it
* Hilary has several trainings scheduled in the east

### Bloomwatch
* Hilary would like to discuss BloomWatch and an idea for the data
    * Jasper: trouble with citsci.org make this no longer a viable option
    * Hilary:  Tad and Marlis in WED can build a stand alone database and host it on our web server
      * EPA has an access to an application called "qlik" that may be useful for this
      * we might be able to host this on cyanos.org
      * Hilary is checking on permissions
      * Tom suggested looking into another data viewer called "tableau"
      * Shane says ArcGIS click sense could also be use and UNH has a license
      * Shane points out that we need to clarify our goals and understand what people want before we build a new tool
    
### cyanoScope
* activity is picking up with new identifiers

### other Bidness
* May 23rd CMC meeting in Chelmsford: 
    * no beagle calibration this year
    * agenda will be out next week 
    * Shane will present on the concept map
* Still need some video clips for training on cyanos.org

## Action Items 20190410
* Hilary will look into converting bloomwatch to "qlik"






