---
title: "cmc_call_20181107"
author: "Bryan Milstead"
date: "`r format(Sys.time(), '%d %B %Y')`"
output: github_document
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE, echo = FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
```

# Call Notes for November 7, 2018, 3-4pm (eastern)
* call in info:
    * Phone number: 202-991-0477
    * ID: 5142339

### Participants: Betty, Bryan, Stephen, Hilary, & Shane. Jasper at a conference 

## Housekeeping
* Next call is Wednesday December 5, 2018
* Call notes will be available on https://github.com/willbmisled/cmc_calls; look for the .md files by date
    - This months notes: https://github.com/willbmisled/cmc_calls/blob/master/cmc_call_20181107.md
* CMC meeting chelmsford Monday Nov. 19th

## Action Items 20180905
* Shane will check with Jim about his work on calibrating the Beagle to cells / ml. 
    - completed this summer
    - doesn't work
* Shane will see what needs to be done to make the kit links more visible on cyanos.org. 
    - done
* Hilary will contact the kit owners to ask them what their iNat username is to ask if they need help getting going if they aren't current on their observations.
    - tabled
* Hilary will set up an November date for the beaglethon.
    - cancelled
* Betty and Bryan will send out tweets and an announcement on iNat about the blitz.
    - done
* Bryan will convert data entry spreadsheet to google sheet. Target date September 30.
    - explore adding a form
    - next year

## Program Updates

### Monitoring
* Nothing new on the horizon

### Bloomwatch
* I’m going to be at a nutrients permitting workshop in Gulfport next week and won’t be able to make the call. On the bloomWatch front, Hilary and I have been in discussions with SciStarter about a potential partnership. Maybe Hilary can fill the group in on where we’re at. We don’t want to commit to anything yet, and I’m waiting to hear back from the developers and CitSci about how this could work. - Jasper
    - in conversation
    - could require some tweaks to the app
    - Hilary will send out the emails
    
### cyanoScope
* cyanoBlitz
    - not a lot of response
    - needs more marketing
* David Lu
    - Bryan talked with him and he may visit.
* Twitter plans
    - What to do with the account over the winter?
      - retweet?
      - Could send out links and photos of unidentified ones
      - How can we tropical and southern hemisphere participants

### other Bidness
*	Discussion start on rethinking our approach to the CMC. 
    -	BloomWatch is fairly stagnant, despite the fact that we have about 28 states signed on to the APP. This means the states have signed on, but have not promoted the product. Needs a lot of work, probably from the marketing standpoint. It appears a lot of the NE states are still asking for call ins to report HABs, or their own version of a paper form. Needs exploring…
      - We need a marketing team
      - What about an intern
    -	Cyanoscope seems to be ticking along. Had hoped for more participation, especially with the cyanoblitz call. 
      - Marketing!
    -	Is the website doing what we want? I see upticks on visits every time a listserv notice goes out, but not much else unless there has been a training. 
      - Betty will tweet the website
    -	The website should have a section for “Cyano Solutions.” We had talked about possibly hitching up with NALMS cyano group (comprised of Angela and Shane) and either linking to the NALMS site for management solutions for HABs or developing another section within our website. Would be good discussion to have during this call with Shane, as NALMS is coming right up.
      - Will be discussed later
    -	FYI-after reviewing each of the new England state environmental cyano webpages, I found the Cyanobacteria Monitoring Collaborative or Cyanos.org was only listed on two of the six state websites, Rhode Island and Maine. No mention of the bloomWatch APP anywhere on any pages despite all NE states joining the Bloomwatch App; many still operating on paper reporting forms or call ins. Pretty depressing considering the effort we have spent. 
*	Shane to finish his flow chart graphic? Discussion?
*	I have attached above a very sketchy outline of components we may want to consider for a  New England CMC Report. I would like to flesh this out and have everyone comment, add things I missed, strike out irrelevant stuff, brainstorm etc. so that we can present this at our cyano meeting in late November or early December. Let me know what you think!
  - Hilary will discuss this at the chelmsford meeting
  - We should devote the next call to this
  - We should highlight both accomplishments and problems
*	Should we start thinking about a collaborative specific project for next year aside from the ongoing efforts? Would this foster more engagement? 
*	We should have some blog posts from members of the collaborative, i.e. watershed/lake associations, AED/UNH research, etc. We definitely get many more webpage visits when a blog is posted.
* discuss exploring ways for people visiting cyanos.org to connect with one another; maybe via a comment thread or something in order to begin conversations on cyano issues…just a thought!
    - not discussed
* Ping Tom Hollenhorst from Duluth to see if he is still engaged ( I did send him a fluorometer this fall…).


## Action Items 20181107
* Hilary will check with the cyanoscope kit owners to find out their cyanoscope username
* Betty will tweet the website
* Bryan: next agenda discuss cmc report needs-make next call about this
* Hilary will ping Tom Hollenhorst






