---
title: "cmc_call_20180604"
author: "Bryan Milstead"
date: "`r format(Sys.time(), '%d %B %Y')`"
output: pdf_document
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
```

# Call Notes for June 4, 2018

### Participants:  Jasper, Hilary, Betty, Jeff, Sara, Stephen, Shane, and Bryan.  Absent: Jim

## Housekeeping

* Bryan will coordinate the calls from now on
* Calls will be scheduled on the first Monday of each month @ 2pm when possible
    - No call next month (July); **next call Tuesday August 7, 2018**
* Last Monday of each month there will be a request for agenda items
* Who is on the calls? Should we invite someone from the states to join us?
    - reconsider after the summer
* Call notes will be available on https://github.com/willbmisled/cmc_calls; look for the pdf files
* This weeks call notes are here: https://github.com/willbmisled/cmc_calls/blob/master/cmc_call_20180604.pdf

## Program Updates

### Monitoring
* Several of us (Jim, Hilary, Betty, Stephen, and Bryan) met at UNH on May 24th we discussed many things including:
    - Developing a dilution protocol for the Beagles: there is concern that there is quenching and that higher level of phycocyanin and chlorophyll are not being read correctly.  Therefore we need to run a dilution series to determine the range of acceptable values.
    - The AED ran a test of this last week.  Using a lab culture of *Microcystis* we ran triplicate samples on the beagle then diluted and reran the samples.  For all dilutions results were steady at around 1000 ug/l PC and 10 ug/l chla.  The Chla numbers are much lower than expected.  No evidence of quenching found.  
    - This week the AED is re-running the quenching test with a serial dilution protocol.  They will  use two beagles (one from watershed watch) and will extract PC and chla for comparison. 
        - They will also record the rfu values along with the PC and chla
        - Results and methods from this weeks work will be shared with group
        - Hopefully Jim's lab will be able to look at this as well
    - Calibrate the beagles to cells/ml for lab cultures of *Microcystis*.  
        - Shane believes that Jim is already moving forward on this.  The AED group will not be able to start on this until after the summer season.  Shane will confirm with Jim.
    - Develop of set of thresholds for PC and chla values from the beagle for use by our partners.
        - Really important but will need to wait until we have the dilution methods and calibration to cells / ml completed.

### Bloomwatch	
  
* Version 3.1 now available with a new logo
* citSci has upgraded their server and there have been some glitches
* App is working well for Jasper but other users have noticed problems

### cyanoScope

* Betty and Bryan are going to Phycotech in July to participate in a workshop on identifying phytoplankton.  Also hoping to attract new users and experts.
* Twitter: we discussed the possibility of putting new observations up on a twitter as a means to promote the program and to attract new experts.
    - Apparently we already have a twitter handle @cyano_scope
        - needs some cleaning
    - Betty will manage the twitter account and send out updates
    - Jeff is looking into developing a way to automate the posts
    - Shane will retweet (when appropriate) on @cyanos

### cyanoBlitz
* The idea is to promote the idea of having people submit as many images as possible during the month of September.
* To kick it off we might invite Robin Matthews to give a one day workshop on the identification of phtyoplankton
    - Hilary says that Chelmsford might be able to help with some of the travel (not flights)
    - Need to send a message out to the listserver to start to gauge the interest on the blitz and the training.

### Other Bidness
* Amiscience website appears to claim that the beagle is supported by the EPA (http://amiscience.com/product.php?pid=517).  Hilary will check on this.
* Bloomwatch blog ready for posting.  Jasper was having difficulty logging into cyanos.org.
* Website: links to cyanoScope and monitoring kits needs to be easier to find
* Innovations Projects RFP is out.  Hilary will check if this is useful to us.

## Action Items
* Monitoring
    - Hilary will send a message to the listserver about starting the 2018 sampling season
    - Hilary will check with Robin about collecting splits so we can replicate her readings for the summer
    - Shane will check with Jim about his work on calibrating the Beagle to cells / ml.
* Betty will print some cyanoScope brochures (why are we doing this?)
* cyanoScope Tweeting:
    - Betty will start tweeting about cyanoScope on @cyano_scope
    - Jeff will look into automating the tweeting of current observations
    - Shane will retweet selected tweets on @cyanos
* cyanoBlitz
    - Bryan will send a message to the listserver to gauge interest in the blitz and the training
    - Bryan will check with Robin to see if she can do the 1 day workshop
    - Bryan will check with Tim about invitational travel for Robin
    - Bryan and Betty will work on the cyanoBlitz action plan
* Other Bidness
    - Hilary will look at the Amiscience website and see what needs to be done
    - Hilary will look into the Innovations Project RFP
    - Shane will see what needs to be done to make the kit links more visible on cyanos.org
    
## Still to Come
* Develop a short report describing how to interpret fluorometry results 
